let's go over the vocabulary for dancing
rainbows a Pueblo Boy story by Evelyn
Clark my Pueblo Pueblo an Indian village
every year the Pueblo has a big party
with food fun and dance
taehwa Tewa member of the Pueblo Indians
their tribe is called Tewa San Juan San
Juan the Tewa live in San Juan Pablo New
Mexico honor honor to show respect to or
for someone or some thing on feast day
native dances honor the pueblos patron
saint ancestors ancestors people one's
family comes from
their ancestors were farmers respect
respect to honor appreciate or admire
someone or something we must always
respect mother earth elder elder someone
who is older and often a wise and
respected leader in a group Andy is an
elder in his tribe plaza plaza an open
area in a town or city where people
gather Curt and Andy rush to the plaza
Comanche Comanche member of North
American people he puts on his Comanche
costume
bustle bustle gathered material or
decoration worn at the back around or
below the waist
Andy fixes his bustle and ties on his
headdress
imitating imitating
copying what someone does in this dance
they are imitating the Comanche warriors
illegal illegal against the law not
allowed in 1923 the United States made
Indian worship illegal Kiva's Kiva's a
place of worship the Indians would no
longer be able to visit their Kiva's
Yelp Yelp to make a short sharp yell the
men Yelp loudly for the Comanche dance
tassels tassels decorations made of
loose thread tied at one end and hanging
free at the other end tassels on
costumes represent raindrops powwows
powwows gatherings or meetings of Native
Americans the group often dances at
powwows
those are your vocabulary words for
dancing rainbows feel free to review
them as much as possible so you can
understand the word the definition and
how it's used in a sentence